Changelog 185 (#171)
intellij-rust/intellij-rust.github.io: _posts/2022-12-19-changelog-185.markdown

---
layout: post
title: "IntelliJ Rust Changelog #185"
date: 2022-12-19 13:00:00 +0300
---

## New Features

> * [#9803] Show [type hints](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8182-rust/docs/rust-code-reference-info.html#inlay-hints) inside attribute procedural macros

Reviewer: Let's mention that attribute macros are not enabled by default for now and not to turn them on
Also, I'd swap this item with type inference for GATs since it's an improvement of experimental feature => affects small number of users

  <img src="/assets/posts/changelog-185/inlay_type_hint_in_rocket.png" width="350px"/>

* [#8544] Provide initial type inference support for [GATs](https://blog.rust-lang.org/2022/10/28/gats-stabilization.html)

> * [#9858] Annotate half-open [range patterns](https://doc.rust-lang.org/reference/patterns.html#range-patterns) as experimental before Rust 1.66, and highlight syntactically invalid range patterns and inclusive ranges without end as errors

Reviewer: Misha added a fix for this feature - https://github.com/intellij-rust/intellij-rust/pull/9899
Let's add here as well

* [#9836] Respect [`clippy::wrong_self_convention`](https://rust-lang.github.io/rust-clippy/master/index.html#wrong_self_convention) attribute, avoiding the need to use additional [IntelliJ-specific](https://jetbrains.com/help/idea/disabling-and-enabling-inspections.html#suppress-inspections) `//noinspection RsSelfConvention` comments anymore (by [@Techcable])

> * [#9816] Add support for the "Foreign items may not have type/const parameters" ([E0044](https://doc.rust-lang.org/error_codes/E0044.html)) error (by [@kuksag])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#9816] Detect `Foreign items may not have type/const parameters` ([E0044](https://doc.rust-lang.org/error_codes/E0044.html)) error
```

I believe we shouldn't mention our interns in the same way as external contributors. I will update the script which generates changelog template

## Performance Improvements

> * [#9861] Slightly optimize `Unused imports` inspection

Reviewer 2: Regarding the `Slightly` word hereinafter. From the reader's perspective, it feels like something negligible when they come across the word. I suggest removing it here and after. Moreover, '`optimize`' is less strong and clear than '`speedup` / `increase speed of some inspection`', which describes the PR.

> * [#9841] Don't calculate CFG, liveness, and borrowck in cfg-disabled code

Reviewer: It doesn't seem clear for users. Let's rephrase it somehow. Something like `Don't performe some code analysis for cfg-disabled code`

> * [#9528] Slightly speed up name resolution by resolving more cases of nested paths at once

Reviewer 2: I suggest adding rust's RFC link to the 'name resolution', underlining its meaning and implications. ([name resolution] (https://rust-lang.github.io/rfcs/1560-name-resolution.html))

Reviewer: I don't think we really need it because:
- this link is about some concrete changes in rustc
- we use `name resolution` term a lot, so I think we can consider it as well-known

* [#9869] Slightly speed up macro resolution

## Fixes

* [#9866] Don't remove unused imports marked with `#[allow(unused_imports)]` during [import optimization](https://jetbrains.com/help/idea/creating-and-optimizing-imports.html#optimize-imports)

* [#9851] Improve [Extend Selection](https://jetbrains.com/idea/guide/tips/extend-selection) and [Type Info](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8182-rust/docs/rust-code-reference-info.html#type-info) actions inside macro calls

* [#9832] Fix the [Type Info](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8182-rust/docs/rust-code-reference-info.html#type-info) action (<kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>P</kbd>) inside attribute procedural macro calls

* [#9804] Properly limit max depth of im-memory macro expansions

* [#9796] Take into account `impl`s expanded from macro calls inside function bodies and `impl`s located in doctests

* [#9753] Improve [the `include!` macro](https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/macro.include.html) search

* [#9347] Convert `Self` usages in the [Convert Struct to Tuple](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8182-rust/docs/#convert-refactoring) refactoring

> * [#9341] Fix rendering of some actions in the Undo/Redo stack (by [@afetisov])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#9341] Provide proper names for `Undo`/`Redo` actions and records in [Local history](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/local-history.html) for changes made by plugin actions, intentions and refactorings (by [@afetisov])
```

* [#9858] Annotate half-open [range patterns](https://doc.rust-lang.org/reference/patterns.html#range-patterns) as experimental before Rust 1.66, and highlight syntactically invalid range patterns and inclusive ranges without end as errors

* [#9836] Respect [`clippy::wrong_self_convention`](https://rust-lang.github.io/rust-clippy/master/index.html#wrong_self_convention) attribute, avoiding the need to use additional [IntelliJ-specific](https://jetbrains.com/help/idea/disabling-and-enabling-inspections.html#suppress-inspections) `//noinspection RsSelfConvention` comments anymore (by [@Techcable])

* [#9816] Detect `Foreign items may not have type/const parameters` ([E0044](https://doc.rust-lang.org/error_codes/E0044.html)) error

## Performance Improvements

* [#9841] Don't perform some code analysis for cfg-disabled code

* [#9861] Speed up `Unused imports` inspection

* [#9528] Speed up name resolution by resolving more cases of nested paths at once

* [#9869] Speed up macro resolution

## Fixes

> * [#9801] Fix flickering of [external linter](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8182-rust/docs/rust-code-analysis.html#external-linters) icon in the status bar during scans

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#9801] Fix flickering of [external linter](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8182-rust/docs/rust-code-analysis.html#external-linters) icon in the status bar during scans (by [@afetisov])
```

* [#9866] Don't remove unused imports marked with `#[allow(unused_imports)]` during [import optimization](https://jetbrains.com/help/idea/creating-and-optimizing-imports.html#optimize-imports)

* [#9851] Improve [Extend Selection](https://jetbrains.com/idea/guide/tips/extend-selection) and [Type Info](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8182-rust/docs/rust-code-reference-info.html#type-info) actions inside macro calls

* [#9832] Fix the [Type Info](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8182-rust/docs/rust-code-reference-info.html#type-info) action (<kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>P</kbd>) inside attribute procedural macro calls

> * [#9804] Properly limit max depth of im-memory macro expansions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#9804] Properly limit maximum depth of in-memory macro expansion
```
